.TH DELAUNCHER-GUI 1

.SH NAME
delauncher\-gui \- run and manage games based on the
Drag[en]gine Game Engine using GUI.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.\" run game
.B delauncher\-gui
[ { \fB\-p\fR | \fB\-\-profile\fR } \fIprofile\-name\fR ]
.RS 4
.br
{ \fIgame\-identifier\fR | \fIgame\-alias\fR | \fIdelga\-file\fR }
.br
[\fIgame\-options...\fR]
.RE

.\" install delga
.B "delauncher\-gui \-\-install"
.I delga\-file

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B delauncher\-gui
run and manage games based on the Drag[en]gine Game Engine using GUI.
From the command line games can be run and optionally DELGA files installed.
All other interactions are done through the GUI.

For game servers and users prefering console handling use
\fIdelauncher\-console\fR instead.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP 4
.I game\-identifier
Run installed game using its unique identifier. Each game has a unique identifier
in the form of a standard random UUID (for example "73ac1719\-c9b2\-40c4\-8cd7\-6efa8f5b63f9").
Since remembering such an identifier is cumbersome the \fIgame\-alias\fR can be used instead.
See the game listing in the GUI to find the game identifier and game alias of installed games.

.TP 4
.I game\-alias
Run installed game using its alias name. Each game has an human readable alias name
which is short and easy to remember. The alias is not guaranteed to be unique.
If more than one installed game shares the same alias you have to use the
\fIgame\-identifier\fR instead.
See the game listing in the GUI to find the game identifier and game alias of installed games.

.TP 4
.I delga\-file
Run *.delga file. This can be any installed or not installed *.delga file.

.TP 4
[ { \fB\-p\fR | \fB\-\-profile\fR } \fIprofile\-name\fR ]
Use game profile named \fIprofile\-name\fR instead of the game profile assigned
to the game. Game profiles can be created in the GUI. If you want to use the
profile for running the game in the future assign it to the game using the GUI.

.TP 4
[ \fB\-\-install\fR \fIdelga\-file\fR ]
Install *.delga file using the GUI. All games and patches located inside the
DELGA file are installed alongside. It is not possible to only install some
content of the DELGA file. Installing a DELGA file installs all content always.
If content is already installed the DELGA fails to install.

To uninstall games and patches use the GUI.

.TP 4
[\fIgame\-options...\fR]
Game specific options appended to the run arguments defined in the game.
.RE
.LP

.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B delauncher\-gui
exits with status 0 if the specified action succeeded or 1 if errors occured.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"

.TP 4
.B DELAUNCHER_SYS_CONFIG
Overrides compiled in system wide launcher configuration directory.

.TP 4
.B HOME
User directory used to store user specific configuration, game saves and captures.

.TP 4
.B USER
If the environment variable \fIHOME\fR is not found this environment variable
is examined instead.

.TP 4
.B LOGUSER
If the environment variable \fIUSER\fR is not found this environment variable
is examined instead.

.TP 4
.B DELAUNCHER_USER_CONFIG
Overrides user specific configuration directory. If not set
\fBdelauncher\-gui\fR uses the path:
.br
.IR "~/.config/delauncher"

.TP 4
.B DELAUNCHER_GAMES
Overrides compiled in path to directory where DELGA files are installed to.

.TP 4
.B DELAUNCHER_SHARES
Overrides compiled in path to launcher shares directory.

.TP 4
.B DELAUNCHER_LOGS
Overrides compiled in path to launcher logging directory.

.TP 4
.B DISPLAY
Display to run the launcher GUI and games on.

.TP 4
.B DE_ENGINE_PATH
Overrides compiled in path to game engine module libraries path.
Engine modules are installed inside the directory in the form
\fImodule\-type/module\-version\fR.

.TP 5
.B DE_SHARE_PATH
Overrides compiled in path to game engine module shared path.
Engine modules are installed inside the directory in the form
\fImodule\-type/module\-version\fR.

.TP 5
.B DE_CONFIG_PATH
Overrides user specific game engine configuration directory.
If not set the game engine uses the path:
.br
.IR "~/.config/dragengine"

.TP 5
.B DE_CACHE_PATH
Overrides compiled in path to game engine cache path.
See \fI~/.cache/dragengine/local/{game\-identifier}\fR.

.TP 5
.B DE_CAPTURE_PATH
Overrides compiled in path to game engine capture path.
See \fI"~/.cache/dragengine/capture"\fR.

.SH FILES

.TP 4
.B "~/.config/delauncher/launcher.xml"
User specific configuration settings for all Drag[en]gine capable launchers.

.TP 4
.B "~/.config/delauncher/delauncherconsole.xml"
User specific configuration settings for \fBdelauncher\-gui\fR.

.TP 4
.B "~/.config/delauncher/logs/delauncher\-gui.log"
Log file storing logs produced by \fBdelauncher\-gui\fR.
In case of GUI launcher problems and bug tracking provide
the content of this file to bug tickets.

.TP 4
.B "~/.config/delauncher/games/{game\-identifier}"
User specific configuration, saves and capture directory for game with
identifier \fIgame\-identifier\fR. This directory contains these files:
.RS 4

.TP 4
.B launcher.xml
Game specific launcher settings for all Drag[en]gine capable launchers.

.TP 4
.B config
Game configuration which is usually game settings and save states.

.TP 4
.B capture
Game captures created by the user which are usually screenshots, recored
videos and other game content made available to the user.

.TP 4
.B logs
Game specific launcher logs. In case of game problems and bug tracking
provide the content of this directory to bug tickets
.RE

.TP 4
.B "~/.cache/dragengine/local/{game\-identifier}"
User specific cache directory for game with identifier \fIgame\-identifier\fR.
The directory contains sub directories for each engine module storing caches
for the game. The sub directories as well as the game cache directory itself
can be safely deleted to reclaim disk space.

.TP 4
.B "~/.cache/dragengine/capture"
User specific capture directory for game engine modules. Used for developing
and debugging engine modules. The directory can be safely deleted to reclaim
disk space.
.LP

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP 4
.nf
.B "delauncher\-gui \-\-install ~/download/DEExampleApp.delga"

.fi
Install Drag[en]gine Example App DELGA downloaded from
\fIhttps://github.com/LordOfDragons/deexamples/releases\fR.

.TP 4
.nf
.B "delauncher\-gui deexampleapp"

.fi
Run Drag[en]gine Example App using game alias "deexampleapp".
In most situations using the alias is enough but if multiple installed
games share the same alias the user has to use the game-identifier instead.

.TP 4
.nf
.B "delauncher\-gui 73ac1719\-c9b2\-40c4\-8cd7\-6efa8f5b63f9"

.fi
Run Drag[en]gine Example App using game identifier
"73ac1719\-c9b2\-40c4\-8cd7\-6efa8f5b63f9". This identifier is unique for
the game and is the same for all computers it is run on. Using the
game identifier is thus recommended for scripts especially those distributed
over the internet to operate on the correct game.

.TP 4
.nf
.B "delauncher\-gui ~/download/DEExampleApp.delga"

.fi
Run Drag[en]gine Example App directly from the downloaded DELGA file.
This allows to run games without installing them. Game configurations,
save states and captures still work as if the game is installed. So if
you wish to keep playing the game you can install it any time later an
keep your game configurations, saves and captures.
.LP
