.TH DELAUNCHER-CONSOLE 1

.SH NAME
delauncher\-console \- run and manage games based on the
Drag[en]gine Game Engine from the console.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.\" general syntax
.B delauncher\-console
[\fIaction\fR] [\fIoptions...\fR]

.\" show help
.B "delauncher\-console help"

.\" run games
.B "delauncher\-console run"
[\fB\-c\fR | \fB\-\-console\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR | \fB\-\-debug\fR]
.RS 4
.br
[ { \fB\-p\fR | \fB\-\-profile\fR } \fIprofile\-name\fR ]
.br
[ { \fB\-P\fR | \fB\-\-patch\fR } { \fIpath\-identifier\fR | \fIpatch\-alias\fR } ]
.br
[\fB\-\-mparam\fR \fImodule\fR:\fIparam\fR=\fIvalue\fR]
.br
{ \fIgame\-identifier\fR | \fIgame\-alias\fR | { \fB\-f\fR | \fB\-\-file\fB } \fIdelga\-file\fR }
.br
[\fIgame\-options...\fR]
.RE

.\" list delga content
.B "delauncher\-console delga content"
.I filename

.\" install delga
.B "delauncher\-console delga install"
.I filename

.\" list installed games
.B "delauncher\-console games"

.\" check if game is installed
.B "delauncher\-console games installed"
{ \fIgame\-identifier\fR | \fIgame\-alias\fR )

.\" uninstall game
.B "delauncher\-console games uninstall"
{ \fIgame\-identifier\fR | \fIgame\-alias\fR )

.\" list user defined profiles
.B "delauncher\-console profiles"

.\" list installed patches
.B "delauncher\-console patches"

.\" check if patch is installed
.B "delauncher\-console patches installed"
{ \fIpatch\-identifier\fR | \fIpatch\-alias\fR )

.\" uninstall patch
.B "delauncher\-console patches uninstall"
{ \fIpatch\-identifier\fR | \fIpatch\-alias\fR )

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B delauncher\-console
runs, installs and uninstalls *.delga files from the console. This is useful for
game servers or users prefering to run and manage Drag[en]gine based games from
using a command line interface. Depending on the \fIaction\fR used the launcher
operates in different modes.

.TP 4
.B "Display Help"
Using no \fIaction\fR or using the \fBhelp\fR action the supported actions are
printed out on the console. THis prints out similar output as SYNOPSIS.

.TP 4
.B "Run Games"
Using the \fBrun\fR action runs installed games or any *.delga file (installed or not).

.RS 4
.TP 8
.B game\-identifier
Run installed game using its unique identifier. Each game has a unique identifier
in the form of a standard random UUID (for example "73ac1719\-c9b2\-40c4\-8cd7\-6efa8f5b63f9").
Since remembering such an identifier is cumbersome the \fIgame\-alias\fR can be used instead.
To find the game identifier and game alias of installed games see the "List Installed Games" section.

.TP 8
.B game\-alias
Run installed game using its alias name. Each game has an human readable alias name
which is short and easy to remember. The alias is not guaranteed to be unique.
If more than one installed game shares the same alias you have to use the
\fIgame\-identifier\fR instead.
To find the game identifier and game alias of installed games see the "List Installed Games" section.

.TP 8
{\fB\-f\fR | \fB\-\-file\fR } \fIdelga\-file\fR
Run *.delga file. This can be any installed or not installed *.delga file.

.TP 8
[\fB\-c\fR | \fB\-\-console\fR]
Use console instead of graphic system. In this mode console a console graphic module and
input module is used. This mode is intended for game servers which do not have a user
directly playing on the computer.

.TP 8
[\fB\-d\fR | \fB\-\-debug\fR]
Display all debug informations in the console not just the log file.

.TP 8
[ { \fB\-p\fR | \fB\-\-profile\fR } \fIprofile\-name\fR ]
Use a game profile named \fIprofile\-name\fR instead of default game profile
generated by the launcher. To ceate game profiles use \fBdelauncher\-gui\fR
or add them manually to \fI~/.config/delauncher/launcher.xml\fR.
Using \fBdelauncher\-gui\fR is recommended.

.TP 8
[ { \fB\-P\fR | \fB\-\-patch\fR } { \fIpath\-identifier\fR | \fIpatch\-alias\fR } ]
Use patch with identifier or alias instead of latest possible patch.
Use empty string to run game unpatched.

Patches can be specified using either the \fIpath\-identifier\fR or the \fIpatch\-alias\fR.
Each patch has a unique identifier in the form of a standard random UUID
(for example "73ac1719\-c9b2\-40c4\-8cd7\-6efa8f5b63f9").
Since remembering such an identifier is cumbersome the \fIpatch\-alias\fR can be used instead.
To find the patch identifier and patch alias of installed patches see the
"List Installed Patches" section.

.TP 8
[\fB\-\-mparam\fR \fImodule\fR:\fIparam\fR=\fIvalue\fR]
Sets module parameter before running the game. Sets parameter with name
\fIparam\fR in module with identifier \fImodule\fR to string value \fIvalue\fR.
Module identifier \fImodule\fR and parameter name \fIparam\fR are case sensitive.
If module does not understand the parameter it is ignored.
This command line option can be used multiple times to set multiple parameters
of one or more modules.

.TP 8
[\fIgame\-options...\fR]
Game specific options appended to the run arguments defined in the game.
.RE

.TP 4
.B "List DELGA Content"
Using the \fBdelga content\fR action the games and patches stored in a *.delga file
are printed to the console.

.TP 4
.B "Install DELGA"
Using the \fBdelga install\fR action the *.delga file is installed to the launcher
games directory. All games and patches located inside the DELGA file are installed
alongside. It is not possible to only install some content of the DELGA file.
Installing a DELGA file installs all content always. If content is already
installed the DELGA fails to install

\fBReturn code 0\fR: DELGA installed successfully
.br
\fBReturn code 1\fR: Installing DELGA failed

DELGAs are not uninstalled directly but using either \fBgames uninstall\fR
or \fBpatches uninstall\fR. Uninstalling a DELGA uninstalls all content it provides.
Selectively uninstalling is not supported.

.TP 4
.B "List Installed Games"
Using the \fBdelga games\fR action all installed games are listed in the form:

\- game\-alias (game\-identifier) => game-title

Each game has a unique identifier in the form of a standard random UUID
(for example "73ac1719\-c9b2\-40c4\-8cd7\-6efa8f5b63f9"). For convenience each
game also has a human readable \fIgame\-alias\fR. The game identifier is
unique while the game alias is potentially not unique.

.TP 4
.B "Check Game Is Installed"
Using the \fBgames installed\fR action the user can check if a game is installed.
You can use either the \fIgame\-identifier\fR or the \fIgame\-alias\fR to specify
the game to check. Using the \fIgame\-identifier\fR is recommended.

\fBReturn code 0\fR: Game is installed
.br
\fBReturn code 1\fR: Game is not installed

.TP 4
.B "Uninstall Game"
Using the \fBgames uninstall\fR action a game can be uninstalled. Uninstalling
a game removes the DELGA file containing the game. All content also contained
in the DELGA file is uninstalled too. For this reason the user is shown the
list of games and patches to be uninstalled and is asked to confirm the removal.

You can use either the \fIgame\-identifier\fR or the \fIgame\-alias\fR to specify
the game to uninstall. Using the \fIgame\-identifier\fR is recommended.

If game is not installed or multiple games match the call fails.

Game patches are not uninstalled unless located in the same DELGA file.

Local files like saves or caches are not uninstalled.

\fBReturn code 0\fR: Game uninstalled successfully
.br
\fBReturn code 1\fR: Uninstalling game failed

.TP 4
.B "List Game Profiles"
Using the \fBprofiles\fR action all available game profiles are listed.

.TP 4
.B "List Installed Patches"
Using the \fBdelga patches\fR action all installed patches are listed in the form:

\- patch\-name (game\-alias) => patch\-identifier (game\-identifier)

Each patch has a unique identifier in the form of a standard random UUID
(for example "73ac1719\-c9b2\-40c4\-8cd7\-6efa8f5b63f9"). For convenience each
patch also has a human readable \fIpatch\-name\fR. The patch identifier is
unique while the patch name is potentially not unique.

.TP 4
.B "Check Patch Is Installed"
Using the \fBpatches installed\fR action the user can check if a patch is installed.
You can use either the \fIpatch\-identifier\fR or the \fIpatch\-name\fR to specify
the patch to check. Using the \fIpatch\-identifier\fR is recommended.

\fBReturn code 0\fR: Patch is installed
.br
\fBReturn code 1\fR: Patch is not installed

.TP 4
.B "Uninstall Patch"
Using the \fBpatches uninstall\fR action a patch can be uninstalled. Uninstalling
a patch removes the DELGA file containing the patch. All content also contained
in the DELGA file is uninstalled too. For this reason the user is shown the
list of games and patches to be uninstalled and is asked to confirm the removal.

You can use either the \fIpatch\-identifier\fR or the \fIpatch\-name\fR to specify
the patch to uninstall. Using the \fIpatch\-identifier\fR is recommended.

If patch is not installed or multiple patches match the call fails.

Patch game is not uninstalled unless located in the same DELGA file.

\fBReturn code 0\fR: Patch uninstalled successfully
.br
\fBReturn code 1\fR: Uninstalling patch failed
.LP

.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B delauncher\-console
exits with status 0 if the specified action succeeded or 1 if errors occured.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"

.TP 4
.B DELAUNCHER_SYS_CONFIG
Overrides compiled in system wide launcher configuration directory.

.TP 4
.B HOME
User directory used to store user specific configuration, game saves and captures.

.TP 4
.B USER
If the environment variable \fIHOME\fR is not found this environment variable
is examined instead.

.TP 4
.B LOGUSER
If the environment variable \fIUSER\fR is not found this environment variable
is examined instead.

.TP 4
.B DELAUNCHER_USER_CONFIG
Overrides user specific configuration directory. If not set
\fBdelauncher\-console\fR uses the path:
.br
.IR "~/.config/delauncher"

.TP 4
.B DELAUNCHER_GAMES
Overrides compiled in path to directory where DELGA files are installed to.

.TP 4
.B DELAUNCHER_SHARES
Overrides compiled in path to launcher shares directory.

.TP 4
.B DELAUNCHER_LOGS
Overrides compiled in path to launcher logging directory.

.TP 4
.B DISPLAY
Display to run the game on. Used only if \fI\-c\fR and \fI\-\-console\fR is not used.

.TP 4
.B DE_ENGINE_PATH
Overrides compiled in path to game engine module libraries path.
Engine modules are installed inside the directory in the form
\fImodule\-type/module\-version\fR.

.TP 5
.B DE_SHARE_PATH
Overrides compiled in path to game engine module shared path.
Engine modules are installed inside the directory in the form
\fImodule\-type/module\-version\fR.

.TP 5
.B DE_CONFIG_PATH
Overrides user specific game engine configuration directory.
If not set the game engine uses the path:
.br
.IR "~/.config/dragengine"

.TP 5
.B DE_CACHE_PATH
Overrides compiled in path to game engine cache path.
See \fI~/.cache/dragengine/local/{game\-identifier}\fR.

.TP 5
.B DE_CAPTURE_PATH
Overrides compiled in path to game engine capture path.
See \fI"~/.cache/dragengine/capture"\fR.

.SH FILES

.TP 4
.B "~/.config/delauncher/launcher.xml"
User specific configuration settings for all Drag[en]gine capable launchers.

.TP 4
.B "~/.config/delauncher/delauncherconsole.xml"
User specific configuration settings for \fBdelauncher\-console\fR.

.TP 4
.B "~/.config/delauncher/logs/delauncher\-console.log"
Log file storing logs produced by \fBdelauncher\-console\fR.
In case of console launcher problems and bug tracking provide
the content of this file to bug tickets.

.TP 4
.B "~/.config/delauncher/games/{game\-identifier}"
User specific configuration, saves and capture directory for game with
identifier \fIgame\-identifier\fR. This directory contains these files:
.RS 4

.TP 4
.B launcher.xml
Game specific launcher settings for all Drag[en]gine capable launchers.

.TP 4
.B config
Game configuration which is usually game settings and save states.

.TP 4
.B capture
Game captures created by the user which are usually screenshots, recored
videos and other game content made available to the user.

.TP 4
.B logs
Game specific launcher logs. In case of game problems and bug tracking
provide the content of this directory to bug tickets
.RE

.TP 4
.B "~/.cache/dragengine/local/{game\-identifier}"
User specific cache directory for game with identifier \fIgame\-identifier\fR.
The directory contains sub directories for each engine module storing caches
for the game. The sub directories as well as the game cache directory itself
can be safely deleted to reclaim disk space.

.TP 4
.B "~/.cache/dragengine/capture"
User specific capture directory for game engine modules. Used for developing
and debugging engine modules. The directory can be safely deleted to reclaim
disk space.
.LP

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.B delauncher-console delga install ~/download/DEExampleApp.delga

.fi
Install Drag[en]gine Example App DELGA downloaded from
\fIhttps://github.com/LordOfDragons/deexamples/releases\fR.

.nf
.B delauncher-console run deexampleapp

.fi
Run Drag[en]gine Example App using game alias "deexampleapp".
In most situations using the alias is enough but if multiple installed
games share the same alias the user has to use the game-identifier instead.

.nf
.B delauncher-console run 73ac1719\-c9b2\-40c4\-8cd7\-6efa8f5b63f9

.fi
Run Drag[en]gine Example App using game identifier
"73ac1719\-c9b2\-40c4\-8cd7\-6efa8f5b63f9". This identifier is unique for
the game and is the same for all computers it is run on. Using the
game identifier is thus recommended for scripts especially those distributed
over the internet to operate on the correct game.

.ni
.B delauncher-console run -f ~/download/DEExampleApp.delga

.fi
Run Drag[en]gine Example App directly from the downloaded DELGA file.
This allows to run games without installing them. Game configurations,
save states and captures still work as if the game is installed. So if
you wish to keep playing the game you can install it any time later an
keep your game configurations, saves and captures.
