.TH DEIGDE 1

.SH NAME
deigde \- edit game projects based on the Drag[en]gine Game Engine.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B deigde
\fIproject\-file\fR
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B deigde
edit game projects based on the Drag[en]gine Game Engine.
If no game project file is provided the IGDE shows the start-up dialog
to create new projects or open existing game projects.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP 4
.I project\-file
Open *.degp game project file for editing.
.LP

.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B deigde
exits with status 0 if the specified action succeeded or 1 if errors occured.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"

.TP 4
.B DELAUNCHER_SYS_CONFIG
Overrides compiled in system wide launcher configuration directory.

.TP 4
.B HOME
User directory used to store user specific configuration, game saves and captures.

.TP 4
.B USER
If the environment variable \fIHOME\fR is not found this environment variable
is examined instead.

.TP 4
.B LOGUSER
If the environment variable \fIUSER\fR is not found this environment variable
is examined instead.

.TP 4
.B DEIGDE_SYS_CONFIG
Overrides system wide configuration directory.

.TP 4
.B DEIGDE_USER_CONFIG
Overrides user specific configuration directory. If not set \fBdeigde\fR uses the path:
.br
.IR "~/.config/deigde"

.TP 4
.B DEIGDE_PROJECTS
Overrides compiled in path to the default directory used to store newly created game projects in.

.TP 4
.B DEIGDE_SHARES
Overrides compiled in path to IGDE shares directory. Inside this directory
shared files of the IGDE itself and all installed editors are located.

.TP 4
.B DEIGDE_LIB
Overrides compiled in path to IGDE library directory. Inside this directory
libraries and internal binaries of installed editors are located.

.TP 4
.B DEIGDE_LOGS
Overrides compiled in path to IGDE logging directory.

.TP 4
.B DISPLAY
Display to run the launcher GUI and games on.

.TP 4
.B DE_ENGINE_PATH
Overrides compiled in path to game engine module libraries path.
Engine modules are installed inside the directory in the form
\fImodule\-type/module\-version\fR.

.TP 5
.B DE_SHARE_PATH
Overrides compiled in path to game engine module shared path.
Engine modules are installed inside the directory in the form
\fImodule\-type/module\-version\fR.

.TP 5
.B DE_CONFIG_PATH
Overrides user specific game engine configuration directory.
If not set the game engine uses the path:
.br
.IR "~/.config/dragengine"

.TP 5
.B DE_CACHE_PATH
Overrides compiled in path to game engine cache path. The IGDE counts as a
game from the point of view of the game engine. It has though an own
game identifier (4e25ac01\-0b95\-406f\-8234\-d921a32ae832).
Caches of the edited game project are stored inside the game project directory.
For IGDE produced cache content see
.br
\fI~/.cache/dragengine/local/4e25ac01\-0b95\-406f\-8234\-d921a32ae832\fR.

.TP 5
.B DE_CAPTURE_PATH
Overrides compiled in path to game engine capture path.
See \fI"~/.cache/dragengine/capture"\fR.

.SH FILES

.TP 4
.B "~/.config/delauncher/launcher.xml"
User specific configuration settings for all Drag[en]gine capable launchers.
Used by Project Editor to test run games using game profiles already
known to launchers.

.TP 4
.B "~/.config/deigde/deigde.xml"
User specific configuration settings for \fBdeigde\fR.

.TP 4
.B "~/.config/deigde/logs/deigde.log"
Log file storing logs produced by \fBdeigde\fR.
In case of IGDE problems and bug tracking provide
the content of this file to bug tickets.

.TP 4
.B "~/.config/deigde/editors"
User specific configuration of IGDE editors. Each editor has an own sub directory.

.TP 4
.B "~/.cache/dragengine/local/4e25ac01\-0b95\-406f\-8234\-d921a32ae832"
User specific cache directory for IGDE. The directory contains sub directories
for each engine module storing caches for the IGDE. The sub directories as well
as the IGDE cache directory itself can be safely deleted to reclaim disk space.

.TP 4
.B "~/.cache/dragengine/capture"
User specific capture directory for game engine modules. Used for developing
and debugging engine modules. The directory can be safely deleted to reclaim
disk space.
.LP

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP 4
.nf
.B "deigde ~/deexamples/exampleApp/ExampleApp.degp"

.fi
Load Example Application game project downloaded from
\fIhttps://github.com/LordOfDragons/deexamples/releases\fR.
.LP
